python is high level language
python easy to learn
python can do the AIML
We call ourselves Homo sapiens—man the wise—because our intelligence is so important
to us. For thousands of years, we have tried to understand how we think; that is, how a mere
handful of matter can perceive, understand, predict, and manipulate a world far larger and
more complicated than itself. The field of artificial intelligence, or AI, goes further still: it ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
attempts not just to understand but also to build intelligent entities.
AI is one of the newest fields in science and engineering. Work started in earnest soon
after World War II, and the name itself was coined in 1956. Along with molecular biology,
AI is regularly cited as the “field I would most like to be in” by scientists in other disciplines.
A student in physics might reasonably feel that all the good ideas have already been taken by
Galileo, Newton, Einstein, and the rest. AI, on the other hand, still has openings for several
full-time Einsteins and Edisons.
AI currently encompasses a huge variety of subfields, ranging from the general (learning
and perception) to the specific, such as playing chess, proving mathematical theorems, writing
poetry, driving a car on a crowded street, and diagnosing diseases. AI is relevant to any
intellectual task; it is truly a universal field.
1.1 WHAT IS AI?
We have claimed that AI is exciting, but we have not said what it is. In Figure 1.1 we see
eight definitions of AI, laid out along two dimensions. The definitions on top are concerned
with thought processes and reasoning, whereas the ones on the bottom address behavior. The
definitions on the left measure success in terms of fidelity to human performance, whereas
RATIONALITY the ones on the right measure against an ideal performance measure, called rationality. A
system is rational if it does the “right thing,” given what it knows.
Historically, all four approaches to AI have been followed, each by different people
with different methods. A human-centered approach must be in part an empirical science, in1
2 Chapter 1. Introduction
Thinking Humanly Thinking Rationally
“The exciting new effort to make computers think ... machines with minds, in the
full and literal sense.” (Haugeland, 1985)
“The study of mental faculties through the
use of computational models.”
(Charniak and McDermott, 1985)
“[The automation of] activities that we
associate with human thinking, activities
such as decision-making, problem solving, learning ...” (Bellman, 1978)
“The study of the computations that make
it possible to perceive, reason, and act.”
(Winston, 1992)
Acting Humanly Acting Rationally
“The art of creating machines that perform functions that require intelligence
when performed by people.” (Kurzweil,
1990)
“Computational Intelligence is the study
of the design of intelligent agents.” (Poole
et al., 1998)
“The study of how to make computers do
things at which, at the moment, people are
better.” (Rich and Knight, 1991)
“AI . . . is concerned with intelligent behavior in artifacts.” (Nilsson, 1998)
Figure 1.1 Some definitions of artificial intelligence, organized into four categories.
volving observations and hypotheses about human behavior. A rationalist1 approach involves
a combination of mathematics and engineering. The various group have both disparaged and
helped each other. Let us look at the four approaches in more detail.
1.1.1 Acting humanly: The Turing Test approach
TURING TEST The Turing Test, proposed by Alan Turing (1950), was designed to provide a satisfactory
operational definition of intelligence. A computer passes the test if a human interrogator, after
posing some written questions, cannot tell whether the written responses come from a person
or from a computer. Chapter 26 discusses the details of the test and whether a computer would
really be intelligent if it passed. For now, we note that programming a computer to pass a
rigorously applied test provides plenty to work on. The computer would need to possess the
following capabilities:
• natural language processing to enable it to communicate successfully in English; NATURAL LANGUAGE
PROCESSING
• knowledge representation to store what it knows or hears; KNOWLEDGE
REPRESENTATION
AUTOMATED
REASONING • automated reasoning to use the stored information to answer questions and to draw
new conclusions;
MACHINE LEARNING • machine learning to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and extrapolate patterns.
1 By distinguishing between human and rational behavior, we are not suggesting that humans are necessarily
“irrational” in the sense of “emotionally unstable” or “insane.” One merely need note that we are not perfect:
not all chess players are grandmasters; and, unfortunately, not everyone gets an A on the exam. Some systematic
errors in human reasoning are cataloged by Kahneman et al. (1982